 Check out sites like Sologig, which lead job seekers to contract, consulting, freelance, temp-to-hire and part-time project opportunities in your field.
 2. Sell your books.
 You can sell your skills, your time or your used stuff to make some extra money.
 4. Start a business .
 Turn your hobby, skills or expertise into a part-time business.
  He has since gained two students, earning about $240 extra dollars per month and grossing around $1,000 since he started teaching.
  The Internet has so many options for saving money, getting something for free, winning a prize or earning money from home, Limauge says.
 6. Give your opinion and get paid.
  Online surveys, phone surveys and product trials can also earn you anywhere from $5 to $150. Check out Free Paid Surveys or FindFocusGroups.
 7. Sell your junk.
 If your regular job isn't earning you enough cash or you've lost your job altogether, these simple side gigs can help put some padding in your pockets until maybe even after you get back on your feet.
 Direct selling is one of the easiest ways to earn some extra cash, especially if you sell products you love.
  Some full-time representatives earn six-figure salaries, others own licensed Avon Beauty Centers and many just sell Avon part time around their family's schedules.
 Haizel MacIntyre started her Avon business in June of 2008 to earn supplemental income to her full-time job when her husband was laid off.
  Since joining Avon, MacIntyre averages $1,800 a month in sales and her husband is helping her run the business.
 Sandler decided to start secret shopping not only to earn money eating, traveling and shopping, but also to learn customer service skills to pass along to the employees she managed at a retail store.
 10. Sell your photos to stock agencies.
  Each time someone downloads your photos, you get 25 cents.
 Copyright CareerBuilder.
 com 2009. All rights reserved.
 1. Do freelance work.
 Felice Premeau Devine left her lucrative, full-time job two years ago to raise her son.
 