Lisbon, Portugal Calling it a significant step forward for the alliance and European security, President Obama announced Friday that NATO will develop a missile defense system to safeguard most of Europe and the United States.
  But it also modernizes the way NATO does defense in the 21st century.
 Obama added Friday that NATO, under Rasmussen, was also looking at how to deal with threats like improvised explosives and cyber defenses, all serving a commitment that an attack on one NATO member is an attack on all.
 Russia's relationship with NATO and the United States is also a chief focus Saturday.
 Obama said that starting then, NATO will work with Russia to build our cooperation with them in this area recognizing that we share many of the same threats.
 The system would be strong enough to cover all NATO European territory and populations, as well as the United States, Obama told reporters in Lisbon, Portugal.
 Obama said Friday that NATO leaders had called passage of the treaty which, among other things, would restart mutual nuclear inspections and limit the arsenal in the two countries critical to European and global security.
 The search for a new mandate for the entire alliance comes at a time that 16 of the 28 NATO members have announced cuts in defense spending.
  NATO officials said leaders are expected to agree at the summit on a list of the top 10 spending priorities, including helicopters, transfer aircraft, technology to combat improvised explosive devices and increased medical capabilities.
 The outcome of the war in Afghanistan is intrinsically tied to the future of the NATO alliance, a new analysis from the RAND Corporation suggested.
 The new strategic concept will cite current security challenges facing NATO members in the 21st century, such as terrorism, cyber warfare and piracy.
 Rasmussen has encouraged NATO members to be more agile in order to respond to 21st century threats and to continue to invest in military technology despite the global economic downturn.
 CNN's Adam Levine contributed to this report.
 NATO Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen announced Friday that heads of state had agreed to a new mission statement, calling it the alliance's road map for the next 10 years.
  This strategic concept reconfirms the commitment by NATO members to defend one another against attack, and that will never change, Rasmussen said in Lisbon.
 