Washington In the most extensive reshaping of the Obama administration's national security team to date, the president will name Central Intelligence Agency Director Leon Panetta as his nominee to succeed Robert Gates as defense secretary, top U.S. officials said Wednesday.
 Petraeus will remain in command in Afghanistan until Allen is ready to take over at the beginning of September, officials said, which could require an interim CIA director if Panetta moves to the defense secretary's office as planned on July 1..
 In addition, Petraeus will resign from the military once confirmed so that he serves as a civilian CIA director, officials said.
 Gates was telling legislators and staff members that he recommended Panetta for his job six months ago, and joked that Panetta stopped speaking to him for days for doing so, the officials said.
  John Allen will succeed Petraeus as head of the U.S-led international military force in Afghanistan, a senior administration official told reporters.
 It took a meeting with Obama to convince Panetta to accept the job, a source familiar with the discussions told CNN. Panetta has been happy serving at the CIA, but believes strongly in public service and answering the call from the commander-in-chief, the source said.
 David Berteau, a senior adviser at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said Panetta brings several important qualities to the table.
 Panetta's former congressional district in northern California had a huge defense presence, Berteau said.
 Panetta has earned the trust and confidence of Obama as leader of the CIA, and has name recognition, which is important, Berteau said, adding: It's a name Americans recognize.
 President Barack Obama will formally announce the changes on Thursday, according to the senior administration official.
  But, he said, Obama impressed him.
  Mueller will leave hard shoes to fill, Holder said.
 Holder said he has been discussing potential nominees with White House officials, including Vice President Joe Biden.
 More changes also are coming.
 Gates will resign effective June 30, assuming Panetta gets confirmed by Congress in time and is ready to start on July 1, according to an administration official and a congressional aide familiar with phone calls Gates was making to legislators and senior staff members.
 