DES MOINES, Iowa The 2016 Republican presidential race in Iowa got its unofficial start Saturday with a marathon of speeches, giving close to a dozen potential candidates a chance to introduce (or re-introduce) themselves to a core group of caucus-goers roughly one year before the contest.
 Immigration and Islamic extremism took front and center as the White House hopefuls sought to test-drive their stump speeches.
 Billed as the Iowa Freedom Summit, the event was co-hosted by Citizens United and Rep.
  Former Arkansas Gov.
  I am a potential presidential candidate, yes I am, former Hewlett Packard CEO Carly Fiorina told CNN..
  On style, it was Wisconsin Gov.
  I'm the one person who can make this country great again, that's all I know, he told reporters Saturday.
  Hey Iowa, can anyone stop Hillary? she said, prompting the audience to cheer.
 Other more well-known names in Iowa — like former Pennsylvania Sen.
 The potential candidates also warned about what they see as a dire path for the country, in particular when it comes to foreign policy, a theme that, along with immigration, also seems poised to become a flash point in the 2016 presidential race, unlike in 2012..
 Huckabee blasted Obama for devoting more time to climate change in the State of the Union address than talking about terrorism.
 The issues.
 There was plenty of the usual Iowa charm on stage, speeches with pig analogies and corn references.
 The contenders also dished out a bevy of red meat, blasting Obamacare, Common Core, the media, Hillary Clinton and the $18 trillion debt.
 New Jersey Gov.
 Giving a shout out to the state's newly elected U.S. senator, Joni Ernst, was also a popular item on the agenda for the potential candidates.
 He also didn't forget to mention that he's been elected three times in the past four years.
  The country would be transformed.
  Chris Christie also sought to establish a deeper bond with Iowa.
 Many attendees had a hard time picking just one favorite in the line of potential contenders.
  He needs it, said Ernie Rudolph of Dallas County, Iowa.
 Christie also saw a warm reception and contested the idea that a Republican governor of a blue state who has a Jersey guy reputation will not connect with voters in Iowa.
  The Hawkeye State receives outsized attention in presidential years thanks to its first-in-the-nation status during the primary season.
  Bobby Jindal, also skipped the event, but given that it's year ahead before Iowans start to caucus, it's unlikely that missing one event will hurt them.
 Marathon time.
 