A source involved in Russia's defense complex told the official Itar-Tass news agency Friday that Russia will sell Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's government MiG-29 fighter jets to fulfill a contract concluded long ago.
 Moscow, however, has said such deliveries would conform with international law and has denied supplying Syria with weapons that can be used against civilians.
  The best chance to save Syria (and) for a future Syria that represents all Syrian people and moves beyond this massacre, devastation, killing, sectarian violence is through a peaceful resolution that comes about in an organized way, he said Friday at a joint news conference in Washington with German Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle.
 Syrian arms embargo: Why more weapons to Syria is a mistake.
 Conference on crisis planned for Switzerland.
 Al-Assad said it's too early to discuss whether or not he'll run again for president in the 2014 election.
  And as long as we are the legitimate representatives of the people, we have nothing to fear, the Syrian leader said.
 'Open-ended' Syrian conflict draws in region.
 Opposition group: 50 prisoners executed.
 There were 74 people killed in Aleppo province, including 50 prisoners who the group said were executed by government forces in Aleppo's Central Prison, the group said.
 The news outlet said Thursday the three had been fighting alongside the rebels and were found with weapons.
  The report said they were ambushed in their car in the flashpoint province of Idlib in northwestern Syria, where government forces have been battling rebels for control.
 Citing privacy concerns, the official said, We are unable to comment further.
 Kerry, the top U.S. diplomat, said that some 1,500 to 2,000 American fighters may be in Syria.
  It's hard to get a peg on the exact number, he said.
 American's family: She went to Syria to help.
 About 80,000 people have been killed since the start of hostilities more than two years ago, U.N. General Assembly President Vuk Jeremic said earlier this month.
 In addition to the fighter jets, Russia reportedly sold six S-300 air defense systems to Syria under a 2010 contract.
 