A photo of Khaju Bridge in Isfahan, Iran, taken by an American traveler.
  His site saw a decline in booking travel to Iran this summer.
  It's already really hard to get to Iran in the first place.
 Officials at the U.S. Department of State say travel warnings have been implemented on Iran since the hostage crisis in 1979, when militants captured 52 American diplomats and staff.
 U.S. passports are valid for travel to Iran and visas are required to enter the country, according to the State Department Web site.
  Travelers who do visit Iran run the risk of being denied entry, U.S. officials say.
  It's made well-known that the destination [Iran] could be perilous for American citizens, said Darby Holladay, spokesman at the State Department.
 Last week, three Americans were detained after crossing into northern Iran during a hiking trip.
  The two men and one woman, said to be seasoned travelers, began their trip in Turkey and went into Iraq before crossing the unmarked border into Iran.
 Pauline Frommer, creator of the Pauline Frommer's Travel Guides, said it's safer when visiting countries in conflict to use travel companies and tour operators that rely on local accommodations and guides.
 Despite worries about safety, demand for visiting Iran has grown in recent years.
  Last May, travel writer Rick Steves shot a 10-day video of his visit to Iran in a one-hour special that launched on PBS. The project cleared up misconceptions about Iran and sparked Americans' interest in traveling there, travel experts said.
 But the recent uncertainty in Iran has caused interest to wane.
  Spiekermann's bi-annual trips to Iran, limited to 14 travelers, usually sell out.
  But owner Mary Dell Lucas said the trip maybe be canceled because travelers are withdrawing.
  What's happening most recently is scaring people, she said.
  And with news of the arrest of three American backpackers, along with the June election riots and government crackdown, Iran may be an even harder sell, some travel companies said.
  It really depends on the political climate and the perception of Iran, said Mike McDonnell, who operates the site BestIranTravel.
 