Yangon, Myanmar When Burmese commuters have an accident they don't dial 911 or any ordinary emergency service.
 Kyaw Thu's decision to leave the film industry wasn't entirely his own.
 Kyaw Thu doesn't deny that he helped them but says that the society's policy of aiding people regardless of social status, national and religion meant that no one was turned away.
 Kyaw Thu's society relies on donations and an army of volunteers around 500 a day who do everything from carrying caskets to preparing bodies for burial.
  One shows a newly married couple still in their wedding clothes carrying a casket; they came to volunteer straight after the service, he said.
 Message to Burmese people: 'Please be united'.
 He supports Nobel laureate and leader of the National League of Democracy, Aung San Suu Kyi her image hangs on the walls of his office but says Burma's people need to drop their unquestioning admiration of Suu Kyi and her father, the late General Aung San, and start following their lead.
  People are not following their speech.
  They say we love Aung San Suu Kyi, we love General Aung San but they're not following their policy.
  This is the problem with Burmese people.
 He said the society has not been allowed to travel west to Rakhine State where Rohingya Muslims are alleged by human rights groups to be suffering systematic abuse amounting to ethnic cleansing.
  So we have no chance to go to the desperate people, Kyaw Thu said.
 He said the pace of Myanmar's transformation, from a military state to thriving democracy at peace with ethnic rivalries, depends on the attitudes of ordinary people.
  Decades of military rule had produced bad attitudes, he said.
  At the time, it wasn't uncommon; poor families would often sneak out in the dead of night to bury their dead, he said.
 And so began the Free Funeral Service Society, founded in collaboration with multi-award winning late Burmese writer and director Thukha, which now also provides a free library, education, medical, dental care and disaster relief.
 