 Five more Georgia men were charged in connection with an anti-government militia with ties to Fort Stewart that's been accused of killing two people and plotting to assassinate President Barack Obama, authorities said Tuesday.
 The five defendants were indicted in Liberty County, Georgia, on charges that include violation of the Street Gang Terrorism and Prevention Act, involving what prosecutors called an identified criminal street gang named FEAR, for Forever Enduring, Always Ready.
 In addition, Adam Dearman is indicted on three counts of Street Gang Act violations, and Garner is charged with theft by receiving stolen property and one Street Gang Act count, prosecutors said.
 Jenderseck was arrested Tuesday in North Dakota, but Joiner and Garner weren't in custody, authorities said Tuesday.
 One official described the offenses as a murder case and said no federal charges had been filed.
 Last month, Pfc.
 Roark, he said, was killed because he took money from the group and planned to leave.
 Four U.S. Army soldiers at Fort Stewart had already been accused of being members of the anarchist group, which was allegedly stockpiling weapons and bomb parts to overthrow the U.S. government, prosecutors said.
 Prosecutors: 'Anarchist' group of U.S. soldiers aimed to overthrow government.
 The government needed a change, Burnett told the court.
  Defendant Aguigui actively recruited new members at Fort Stewart (in southeast Georgia) and targeted soldiers who were in trouble or disillusioned, she said.
 Roark and his girlfriend were killed because Aguigui felt the couple was a loose end, Burnett said.
  Adam Dearman is charged with three Street Gang Act offenses.
 In the third indictment, Joiner, Adam Dearman, Randall Blake Dearman and Anthony Garner are charged jointly, prosecutors said.
  Joiner and Randall Dearman each face two counts of burglary, nine counts of entering an auto, two counts of financial transaction card theft, one count of theft by taking, one count of criminal damage to property in the second degree, and 14 counts of Street Gang Act violations, prosecutors said.
 