Lynnette Squeaky Fromme appears in court in Los Angeles, California, in December 1969..
 She said it never occurred to her that she could wind up in prison.
  Asked whether she had any regrets, Fromme said, No.
 Fromme was sentenced to life in prison, but parole was an option at the time, although the federal system later abolished it, said Felicia Ponce, spokeswoman for the Bureau of Prisons.
 Fromme became eligible for parole in 1985, Ponce said.
  According to reports, she for years waived her right to a parole hearing.
 Fromme was not granted parole until July 2008, Ponce said.
  At the time, prison officials said they were looking into rumors that Fromme escaped after hearing Manson was ill, according to news reports.
 FMC-Carswell spokeswoman Maria Douglas would not comment on Fromme's behavior in prison in recent years.
 Fromme reportedly joined Manson's family after meeting him in California in 1967. She was not involved in the murders of seven people, including pregnant actress Sharon Tate, on August 9 and 10, 1969, that landed Manson and other followers in prison.
 In the WCHS interview, Fromme said that Manson should not be incarcerated because he didn't kill anybody.
 Virga said he told the jury that Fromme assaulted Ford, but did not attempt to assassinate him.
  If Fromme had killed the president, no one would have listened to her, he said.
 Fromme wanted to be heard on issues including the environment, he said.
 In the 1978 interview, Fromme called Manson a once-in-a-lifetime soul.
 For years, she was one of Manson's few remaining followers, as many other Manson Family members have shunned him.
  She said she still corresponded with him.
 She said then she didn't plan to seek a parole hearing: The parole board does not hold my life in its hands.
  Charlie never thought he did.
  A prison spokeswoman would not say whether Fromme continues to correspond with Manson.
 Fromme was convicted in 1975 of pointing a gun at then-President Gerald Ford in Sacramento, California.
 