Rand Paul wears his political ambition for all to see.
 Off-message.
 At his first stop on Monday, which actually took place in Omaha, Nebraska, near the Iowa state line, Paul held a news conference after touring a tech startup venue with Nebraska GOP Senate hopeful Ben Sasse.
 Asked if he still supported phasing out foreign aid to Israel, Paul fired back at a reporter for mischaracterizing his position and staunchly denied that he had ever proposed such legislation.
 In Iowa, Paul stressed that he never introduced legislation that solely targeted Israel and argued that he strongly favors sending money to the country.
 Still, he added, Israel will be better positioned in the long run without foreign assistance.
 Paul is also taking heat for quickly exiting a tense moment when an immigration activist confronted Rep.
  Paul said he was stepping away to do interviews with local media.
 David Kochel, Mitt Romney's Iowa strategist in 2008 and 2012, said he doubts caucus voters will judge Paul negatively for leaving after someone tried to sandbag him.
  I think he's fine on that, he said.
 Still, Kochel thinks Paul is the current frontunner in Iowa among prospective candidates.
 'Son of Ron'.
 In the 2012 Iowa caucuses, former Rep.
 Building off Ron Paul's 2012 momentum, the so-called liberty faction of Iowa's Republican Party eventually took control of party leadership.
 Mainstream Republicans, with the support of Iowa Gov.
 But Paul knows he needs more than just the libertarian wing of the party.
 As Paul blitzed across the Hawkeye State this week, holding events at Iowa GOP offices and campaigning for local candidates, he hardly played coy to the question of whether he was running for President.
 Paul spoke at five GOP offices this week and five other events in a tour that took him around the state in a 730-mile loop.
  At each stop, Paul's main message sought to counter post-2012 perceptions that the Republican Party should change its message.
 In Northwest Iowa, home to many of the state's social conservatives, Paul placed an evangelical spin on his message.
 But that's about as deep as Paul waded into social issues during the trip.
 Asked whether he supported a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage, Paul said he favors the concept of traditional marriage but argued the federal government should stay out marriage entirely.
 Paul left Iowa before this weekend's annual summit hosted by the Family Leader, a group that's influential with social conservatives in the state.
  Bobby Jindal.
 Paul said he couldn't make it due to a scheduling conflict.
 