Evangelical leaders are taking a step back from their decades-long fight against gay marriage, softening their tone and recalibrating their goals.
 In recent interviews with about a half-dozen prominent evangelicals, no one listed opposition to gay marriage as their top priority.
  The party is under pressure to expand its appeal to young people and minorities and an openness to gay marriage could help that effort.
 Of course, there's still plenty of opposition to same-sex marriage among Republicans.
 Vincent Harris, a 26-year-old digital strategist who's worked for evangelical favorites like Ted Cruz and Mike Huckabee said social issues including gay marriage remain very potent to the Republican electorate.
  The leaders said they're more focused on protecting religious liberties as same-sex marriage becomes legal in a growing number of states.
 He frequently mentioned his friends in the gay rights community.
 'Common ground'.
 How Supreme Court's non-decision helps gay marriage.
 About 43% of white evangelical millennials support same-sex marriage, according to a 2014 Public Religion Research Institute poll, while 7 in 10 white evangelicals overall oppose same-sex marriage.
 The shifting attitude comes as the Supreme Court could take up gay marriage as early as next year.
 GOP leaders are eyeing those polls closely and in the last two years, four Republican senators have announced their support for same-sex marriage.
  This year, the GOP fielded two openly gay Republican candidates for Congress though neither won.
 Some, like Republican strategist and LGBT activist Margaret Hoover, say the party is changing too slowly and needs to put its opposition to gay marriage to rest.
 The GOP could see at least one pro-gay marriage presidential candidate in the 2016 elections if Sen.
  Rob Portman who has a gay son and endorsed same-sex marriage in 2013 decides to seek the party's nomination.
 Same-sex marriage: Fast facts.
 What's next in the fight over same-sex marriage?.
 Implications for GOP.
 