Although it's understandable for employees to be upset, frustrated and discouraged when benefits or perks are taken away, Kevin Sheridan, founder and CEO of HR Solutions, which specializes in helping organizations to keep employees engaged, said that employees are less likely to be upset if management communicates with employees.
  Budgets have been cut, layoffs made and furloughs instituted, and benefits and perks have evaporated.
  If an organization's leadership team simply decided amongst themselves which benefits would be best to cut, employees will commonly become upset and their engagement will be negatively affected, Sheridan says.
  If leadership had simply asked employees which benefits were important to them, this situation may be avoided.
 Additionally, according to the HR Solutions survey, 37 percent of employees have thought of resigning in the last six months.
  Twenty-three percent said they thought about leaving because of pay; 18 percent because of a supervisor or manager; 15 percent because of career advancement; and 5 percent because of benefits.
  This statistic is especially important because many organizations have cut benefits over the last six months, and it illustrates that the majority of employees have not thought of resigning as a result of adjusted benefits, Sheridan said.
  These employees recognize the advantages of sticking around with a company, benefits or not, for advantages such as career development and compensation.
  Also, as soon as the economy picks up, many benefits programs will be re-evaluated; employees sticking around with these organizations will not remain without benefits forever.
 If you've had benefits or perks taken away in recent months and need help staying motivated, remember these five tips from our experts:.
 Sixty-five percent of those employers indicated that they would cut back company social events, 61 percent anticipated curtailing business travel, 25 percent expected to scale back on health-care benefits and 11 percent planned to reduce wellness benefits.
 Other areas where companies planned to cut spending included special office perks, such as coffee, ice machines or discounted vending (34 percent incentive trips (28 percent) and philanthropic activities (21 percent .
 Such perks and benefits being taken away make for a tough situation for employees.
  When perks and benefits are taken away, management often does this to allocate resources where they're needed, elsewhere.
 