  Many, diverse tagged and parsed corpora have been developed.
 Amongst the applications of annotated corpora are as training sets for the extraction of models used in speech and handwriting recognition.
 Such training sets need to be as large as possible and there is anecdotal evidence that even the largest on its own is too small for a general statistical model of higher-level syntactic structure.
 As annotating corpora using hand-crafted markup or some semi-automated process followed by correction by linguistic experts is slow and expensive , it would be preferable if some other method of building a large annotated corpus could be found.
 Existing corpora were not designed to a specific framework of annotations so corpora can not easily be collated into a single large training set.
 The AMALGAM (automatic mapping among lexico-grammatical annotation models) project was set up to research ways of mapping between annotation schemes in order to increase the size of corpus tagged with the schemes included in the project , .
   We are developing a multi-tagged corpus and a multi-treebank, a single text-set annotated with all the tagging and parsing schemes we include in the mappings.
 The text-set is the Spoken English Corpus (SEC); which is already annotated with two syntax schemes.
 However, the main deliverable to the computational linguistics research community is not the SEC-based multi-treebank, but its associated suite of mappings - this can be used to combine currently-incompatible syntactic training sets into a large unified corpus.
 Our development of the mapping algorithms aims to distinguish notational from substantive differences in the annotation schemes, and we will be able to evaluate tagging schemes in terms of how well they fit standard statistical language models such as n-pos (Markov) models.
   Although the above description assumes mapping between tagsets from monolingual corpora we believe the issues extend to multilingual tagsets.
 The tagsets of two languages usually differ in the features they cover.
 For example French may have tags to discriminate gender whereas English does not.
 However, tagsets of English do not necessarily mutually cover all features.
 For instance, the British component of the International Corpus of English has a tagging scheme that accounts for transitivity of verbs whereas the Lancaster/Oslo Bergen corpus does not (nor do the EAGLES proposals - see below).
 We believe that our methods are scalable to mappings between multilingual tagsets.
   Corpus-trained statistical language learning techniques have been successfully applied to a range of problems in computational linguistics, including part-of-speech wordtagging , , , word sense disambiguation and tagging , , learning word classes , , , , grammar modelling and induction , , , , , , , grammatical error detection , , probabilistic parsing , , , , , , .
 Particularly relevant to AMALGAM is the recent research interest in Machine Translation using statistical learning techniques for mapping-extraction from parallel corpora , , , .
   As a development and testing resource, we are using the text of the Lancaster-IBM Spoken English Corpus (SEC) .
 The SEC is a collection of recordings of radio broadcasts with accompanying annotated transcriptions, collected by Lancaster University and IBM UK as a general research resource.
 The SEC is available from the International Computer Archive of Modern English (ICAME) based at the Norwegian Computing Centre for the Humanities (in Bergen, Norway).
 The corpus exists in several forms and annotations: the digitised acoustic waveform; the graphemic transcription annotated with prosodic markings; and a part-of-speech analysis that was annotated semi-automatically with the aid of CLAWS , as used for the LOB corpus.
 Skeletal parsing has been added to create the SEC Treebank, and this forms a subset of the Lancaster-IBM Treebank.
 Gerry Knowles (Lancaster) and Peter Roach (Reading, formerly of Leeds) collaborated in an ESRC-funded project, MARSEC, to set up a time-aligned database of recorded speech, accompanied by phonetic and graphemic transcriptions .
 Our proposal will produce, as a side-effect, several alternative tagged and parsed versions of the SEC which will be made available to the SEC database project collaborators.
 It will also be able to act as a test-bed for the comparison and evaluation of parsing schemes.
   Obtaining resources proved to be a stumbling block.
 Whilst most of the people in charge of corpus annotation and distribution are helpful they are also usually very busy! Sometimes there are reservations about distribution of resources.
 For example, the corpus could have copyright restrictions or could be collected for dictionary compilation.
 However, we have obtained the following corpora in tagged or parsed form along with manuals defining the syntactic annotation schemes: Brown , LOB , , , London-Lund , Polytechnic of Wales , and will apply for the British National Corpus as soon as it becomes available.
 We also have the software used for annotating the University of Pennsylvania corpus , and the International Corpus of English , .
   The following table summarises the resources we have for the six main corpora we have included in the project so far.
 The first column reveals if we have the corpus itself: we have all but the International Corpus of English.
 The next column indicates if we have the software that was used in the automated part of annotating of the corpus.
 The next column shows for which corpora we have documentation giving formal descriptions of the annotation guidelines.
 The last column marks the London-Lund and Brown corpus with a `1' to indicate that we have a small sample of corpus annotated using both these schemes.
 The `2' marker in this column indicates the Parallel Annotated Corpus that we are building at the moment by adding the International Ccorpus English (GB) annotation to the Spoken English Corpus.
   When we began the AMALGAM project we anticipated that the following process would be the normal way that an annotation scheme was included in our `mapping suite':   1.
 Develop the most accurate mapping between the new scheme and one of the schemes already in the mapping suite.
 Only one pair need to be mapped explicitly as the other mappings can be generated from intermediaries via an `interlingua' approach .
 2.
 Annotate the Spoken English Corpus using the mapping.
 3.
 Correct the mapped annotation, preferably using advice from the people responsible for the annotation scheme.
   The uneven spread of resources means that alternative mapping strategies must be adopted when including each annotation scheme (see table 1).
 As we have the software used to tag and parse the International Corpus of English we can incorporate that into the mapping.
 Good formal descriptions of the annotation scheme (such as for LOB) can be used to craft some rules by hand.
 Where the documentation is sparse rules can be extracted from the corpus itself.
   We require a method to evaluate the alternative mapping strategies: A simple evaluation can be accomplished by tagging the untagged SEC using one annotation scheme (the evaluation scheme) by the tried and tested method of automatic annotation followed by hand correction.
 To test a mapping strategy one would apply the mapping from the evaluation scheme tags to produce those of the SEC.
 The success of the mapping would be determined by measuring the difference between this annotation and the original SEC (CLAWS tagged) annotation produced by Lancaster.
   The Parallel Annotated Corpus (PAC) created when a (non-CLAWS) evaluation scheme is used to tag the Spoken English Corpus in this way itself provides further possibilities for developing mapping strategies.
 The PAC may intrinsically encode mapping information that would not be uncovered from other mapping strategies.
 Extracting a mapping from a PAC is computationally trivial; the difficulty is annotating an existing corpus with a new scheme.
 However, PACs already exist for pairs of annotation scheme and this provides an easy way to extract mapping information.
 This is particularly true when the annotation scheme of one corpus is replaced by another.
 Initially this would be done using the automatic annotator of the new scheme followed by hand-correction by linguistic experts.
 However, the addition of the new scheme to part of the corpus creates a PAC from which a mapping can be derived.
 The mapping could be used to update the performance of the automatic annotator.
 A process of refinement of the automatic annotator by feedback derived from the mapping would be established.
   This paper focuses on deriving tagset mappings from PACs as we are currently in the phase of our project where we are concentrating on parts-of-speech annotation.
 However, we anticipate that the method will be even more useful when dealing with mapping between parse trees.
   Although a few PACs already exist only a few tagset pairings are covered.
 Often a corpus is annotated with a scheme that the designers feel can be improved so they annotate the same texts with the updated scheme.
 This automatically results in a PAC being formed.
 An example PAC comprises a few sections of the Brown corpus that were annotated by additional London-Lund markup .
 A further example is the Nijmegen Corpus which was originally annotated with CCPP annotation but later replaced with the scheme used to annotate the British component of the International Corpus of English .
 Although the Nijmegen TOSCA team now view the CCPP scheme as largely obsolete it is still a useful resource for mapping extraction as the PAC is 130,000 words in length.
 This provides a large sample from which to evaluate alternative mapping strategies.
   To use the method of deriving mappings from PACs it is inevitable that some traditional tagging is required to build the parallel corpus.
 As an example of the process of extracting correspondences from PACs we shall use the example of the SEC-ICE corpus.
 As a PAC does not exist for this pair of tagsets we had to build our own.
 As we aimed to produce the multitagged corpus out of the texts of the Spoken English Corpus it made sense to annotate the Spoken English Corpus with ICE tags.
   We employed an experienced annotator of corpora, Tim Willis, to learn the ICE annotation scheme and apply it to the Spoken English Corpus by editing the automatic output of the Nijmegen parser which was designed to annotate ICE-GB material.
 For the moment we are concentrating on deriving mappings between tagged annotation but it was felt more cost effective to parse and tag the Spoken English Corpus now as our project will eventually include parse mappings.
   The output from the Nijmegen parser needs to be aligned with the markup in the Spoken English Corpus.
 Problems are caused by the taggers segmenting text by different methods.
 Some taggers convert words not normally capitalised into lowercase, but not all do.
 This causes problems trying to match the words again once annotation has taken place.
 The Spoken English Corpus has sentence boundaries after full stops, exclamation marks and question marks whereas the Nijmegen parser additionally delimits text separated by colons and semicolons.
 The Nijmegen parser and The Spoken English Corpus tagging scheme deal with enclitics in a similar manner; a word like who's being split into the separate items who and 's.
 Other schemes may leave such words as they are.
 To be aligned with the Spoken English Corpus would require the word and its corresponding tag to to be split.
 On the other hand, a proper noun such as New York may be assigned a single tag and treated as a single item rather than having the two words treated individually as in the Spoken English Corpus.
 The Nijmegen parser does this when producing parsed output but not when producing tagged output.
 Some parsers alter the text they annotate; again making the alignment process more difficult.
 A common practice is the removal of capital letters from words that would not normally have them were they not starting a sentence.
 Worse, the item may be transformed altogether.
 A semicolon found in the input to the Nijmegen parser is transformed into the string semi; as the semicolon on its own would be mistaken for an SGML marker .
 Such issues make alignment a non-trivial task.
     To align texts annotated by two schemes we used a method we term island driven alignment.
 The `islands' are the singletons found to be present in the output of both schemes.
 The position of these items can easily be aligned.
 The words next to the islands can be examined in turn.
 Often they will match and so can be aligned immediately, but occasionally the next pair of items will not match.
 Attempting to split enclitics, recombine split compounds or altering initial letter case may match some pairs but others such as the semicolon problem mentioned earlier will require pattern matching of the surrounding text.
 Occasionally an item in one of the annotations will match with no item in the other; the extra end of sentence markers in ICE texts being a good example.
 When this happens it can only be discovered after aligning the items on either side of it with neighbouring items in the other annotated output.
 The first few lines of the Spoken English Corpus when aligned with the ICE tags of the same text are shown figure 1, above.
 The first two columns are the words and CLAWS tags from the tagged SEC and the remaining column contains the corresponding ICE tags.
   The Spoken English Corpus contains the short header: (In Perspective)(Rosemary Hill).
 The process by which ICE was annotated excluded headers such as this (they will be tagged by hand).
 As the header is not included in the ICE annotation of the text there is nothing to align it to.
   Each pairing of tags can now be counted and a list of correspondences made for each individual tag to show the probabilities of each pair.
 For instance the London-Lund/Brown PAC produced the list of London-Lund correspondences for the interrogative wh-determiner tag, WDT, in Brown shown in figure 2.
     The Brown tag WDT pairs with the London-Lund tag GAwhi, relative pronoun: which, just over half the time in the PAC.
 The easiest way to convert these correspondences into a mapping is to map the tag in one scheme always onto the most common pairing found in the PAC.
 Many tags will have a 1:1 mapping or will pair with one particular tag in the other scheme almost all the time.
 However, the above example correspondence list illustrates where mapping the most common pairing will work badly.
 We are currently investigating methods of incorporating the lexicon (which could be extracted from the corpus samples we have, or from the PACs we have built ourselves) or using the contextual information supplied by the neighbouring words and tags.
 We also hope to explore methods developed by Brill in which texts were first tagged by always selecting the most common tag for a word, and then the tag selection refined with a set of automatically extracted rewrite rules, or patches .
   Until recently, very little effort has been expended on the development of standards in tagging and parsing natural language corpora.
 Individual tagging and parsing schemes have been invented more or less independently, and differ not only in the linguistic description, but also in the formalism used to label words or represent tree structures.
 surveys some of the substantive differences between such formalisms for contemporary parsed corpora of English, and illustrates how standards are needed to facilitate the reusability of corpus resources (through enterprises such as the Text Encoding Initiative), and to improve the general applicability of corpus-processing software, such as the Nijmegen Linguistic DataBase .
   As many participants at the workshop will know, EAGLES is a European initiative to devise a set of common standards for Natural Language Processing technology across the range of European Union working languages.
 Of particular relevance to our research are the standards proposals for morphosyntactic wordclasses; a lengthy draft proposal (over 200 pages) has recently been made available to ELSNET nodes and a number of other centres of expertise for comment.
 The proposals aim to standardise a set of wordclasses to be applied to Danish, Dutch, English, French, German, Greek, Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish; once (or if) agreed, the standards may later be extended to cover other languages (e.g.
 Swedish, Finnish, Norwegian, Gaelic, Welsh, Basque, ...) Even among the current EU main languages, there is considerable diversity in morphosyntax, so the EAGLES group are to be congratulated for achieving a compromise which on the face of it is largely uncontentious.
 EAGLES recommends several levels of refinement or delicacy in wordclasses, so that specific applications and/or language models are free to select an appropriate level of tagset granularity.
 For example, NOUN is a broad (level 1) category, a general class which all language models must recognise; within this, there is a level 2 subdivision into proper nouns and common nouns, which will apply to many but not all applications etc.
 Many other possible wordclass distinctions are captured by features, e.g.
 number, gender; some of these do not apply to certain languages (eg gender of English nouns).
   Unfortunately, the divisions between word classes and subclasses are made in terms of examples, and appeals to linguistic intuition.
 This is reasonable and normal practice in lexicography and language teaching; but for computational implementation definitions and boundaries need to be more clearly specified.
 Otherwise, there is a danger that NLP systems will adopt wordclass-demarcations on grounds of computational tractability, which may not agree with the linguistically correct/intuitive definition.
 Worse still, although linguists agree on the general "common-sense" definitions of categories like proper noun, common noun etc, our analysis of competing tagsets for English corpora shows that these categories are in fact `fuzzy\', and different corpus tagging projects have adopted subtly but significantly different definitions, probably unaware that their analyses are incompatible with those of other linguists.
 The EAGLES recommendations include a call to corpus tagging projects to provide their manuals or tagset-definitions along with the final tagged corpus, but we have found that, to date, tagging project teams have deemed these `case-law\' handbooks as `training in progress statements\' not worth publishing - with the notable exception of .
   Our earlier example of parallel CLAWS/ICE tagging of the Spoken English Corpus illustrates the fuzziness in the distinction between proper noun and common noun.
 In general, a singular proper noun is NP in LOB and CLAWS, but N(prop,sing) in ICE.
 However, notice that Perspective, the second word in the corpus, is tagged NP.
 This may have been because the word begins with a capital, and the tagging system uses this as a deciding criterion (however, note that the previous word, In, escapes this default NP tagging because English text requires the first word of every sentence to start with a capital, so the tagging system by default converts this to lower case and tags according to dictionary-lookup).
 To a linguist, this analysis of Perspective may intuitively be an `error; however there are no definitions within the EAGLES guidelines which rule out such counter-intuitive computationally-motivated criteria.
   A second example of disagreement over the proper and common noun boundary is the analysis of Reverend Sun Myung Moon - in ICE this is tagged as a proper-noun sequence (or rather, a compound proper-noun single lexical item), but in LOB/CLAWS, one fuzzy boundary between common and proper nouns is recognised - the area of titular nouns tagged NPT (for example, Reverend can start with upper or lower case in much the same context, so NPT avoids conflicting taggings depending on the case of the initial letter).
 Further examples abound in the parallel corpus; generally the problem arises from differences in the handling of upper-case initial letter.
   Our conclusion for the EAGLES Initiative is that the morphosyntactic category proposals must be followed up with detailed definitions, preferably including computable criteria.
 In the specific example of nouns, there must be clear standards on handling of word-initial case.
 (This is relevant not only to English).
 Otherwise the `standards' will be interpreted differently (and incompatibly) in different tagged corpora.
 We had hoped that the EAGLES tagset might constitute an `interlingua' for translating between existing tagsets.
 However, we have already had to conclude that our task of automatic tagset-mapping extraction can never achieve perfect accuracy, as both source and target training data are noisy; using a fuzzy-edged tagset as an interlingua could only worsen matters.
 