According to the local statistics bureau, the average income per month in Zhengzhou is roughly $483 while property prices in the new district stand at $1,660 per square meter, and are expected to climb.
 Amid growing unrest over swollen property markets, Premier Li Keqiang has made affordable property prices a pillar of his leadership.
  Currently China's urban population is a little over 700 million people, said Tom Miller, author of China's Urban Billion.
  One in eight people on Earth will live in a Chinese city.
 Zhengzhou's population boom.
 According to city government statistics, the population in Zhengzhou grew by 30% between 2000 and 2010, and today stands at close to nine million people, roughly the same population as New York City (8.245 million in 2011 London (8.174, 2011) and Bangkok (8.281, 2010 .
  Just a few years back, a new development zone, an adjunct to the main city, was labeled China's largest ghost city rows and rows of luxury apartments and office buildings sat empty on vast, deserted boulevards.
 But the city appears to have physically grown even faster.
  Dozens of new towers are in various stages of completion, even though real estate companies are still clearly struggling to fill some of the completed buildings.
 In the office of another real estate development company, a sales representative told CNN all of the units in neighboring residential towers had been sold.
 Upon arrival, a sales team escorted CNN into a cinema with 180 degree, IMAX-like screen that played an elaborate computer-illustrated film advertising five-star hotels, gyms, shopping malls, offices and restaurants that would one day populate the new development.
 It would be another five or six years before this virtual city center would be completed, said a saleswoman named Song Lei.
 Miller said the buy-up of property in China is further encouraged by the fact that unlike many Western countries, there is no annual property tax.
 The jury is still out on whether or not huge urban development projects like the new districts of Zhengzhou will become vibrant city centers.
 But Miller challenges critics who quickly labeled Zhengzhou a ghost city.
 He said in the past few years city planners had constructed 14 new university campuses in the city, which he predicted would ensure a quarter of a million new residents.
 