(Global Mail) The night Bob Hawke lost the Labor leadership 20-odd years ago, I was a tender recruit to the Canberra press gallery who found myself, fortuitously, marooned at the Prime Minister's office door whilst the Labor caucus was dispatching the occupant.
 Australian FM Kevin Rudd resigns.
 Never before had the Labor Party dumped a serving Prime Minister, yet Hawke's equanimity outwardly at least was striking.
 Hawke, the Labor Party and most Australians knew that Keating had Hawke lined up for the kill.
 Not so Kevin Rudd.
 It has been an undeclared, subterranean campaign to reinstall Rudd in the Prime Minister's office one from which the candidate has, until now, been able to stay aloof.
  Rudd has portrayed himself as busy and contented within the Cabinet under Julia Gillard.
 Invariably for Rudd, questions about the quality of the Labor Party leadership, the propriety of those who removed him from the Prime Minister's office or of who posted the now-infamous video of his rage on YouTube all are questions that should, he contends, be asked of others.
 And in the resulting public imagery, it is not Rudd who is seeking to return to the Prime Minister's office; rather it is a semi-reluctant Rudd who is being ferried along by a group of ministers, MPs and Labor fixers who believe the only way that Labor can win against Tony Abbott and the Coalition at the next election is for Rudd to resume the leadership.
 Gillard calls for Australian Labor Party leadership vote.
 Their tactic has been to avoid having Rudd, unlike Keating, seen as an active seeker of his Prime Minister's job.
 But Rudd had to be seen to be drafted by his party back into the Prime Minister's office.
 Because the footage most likely had been retained in a Government archive, suspicion falls on the Prime Minister's office or somewhere nearby as HappyVegemiteKR's source.
  This conspiracy Gillard denies, but the enquiry, Rudd says, is another of those questions for others.
 Hawker is now openly connected to the Rudd campaign's camp and helped advise Rudd that night.
 Prompted and legitimized by the leaked video, by midnight Saturday Rudd was on Sky News, effectively sending to the Labor Party and Australians a revised CV that set down his qualifications for another shot at the Prime Minister's job.
  And it was reinforced on Rudd's behalf on Monday morning when the former Queensland Labor Premier, Peter Beattie, publicly urged the Prime Minister to hold a leadership ballot.
 Should Rudd force a ballot? I don't know exactly how this is going to be played out.
 Gillard, you would expect, knows that.
 