New York.
 The chance of blindly stumbling into a vegetarian restaurant is probably higher in New York than in any other U.S. city.
 Chennai, India.
 As the ancient birthplace of vegetarianism, South India is largely vegetarian.
 Vegetarian thalis (platters with a few curries, rice dishes and breads) cost less than a Starbucks latte.
 We recommend: Madras restaurant for delicious South Indian home-style cooking.
 Chiang Mai, Thailand.
 Thanks to a large Buddhist population, Chiang Mai has more than 80 vegetarian restaurants.
 Glasgow, Scotland.
 London.
 With more than 130 vegetarian-centric restaurants, spicy vegetarian curry houses are as plentiful as pubs offering fish and chips.
 We recommend: Arguably London's most well known vegetarian restaurant, Food for Thought in Covent Garden serves everything from Mexican to Indian dishes, cheese and dill scones to quiches.
 Seoul, South Korea.
 While it's best to double check with the server if there's any meat in the bibimbap, vegetarian dishes are common on Korean menus.
 There's kimchi, of course, and a wide variety of veggie pancakes and side dishes, good news for any vegetarian visitor who may get dragged to a barbecue restaurant.
 We recommend: Traditional Korean vegetarian restaurant Hangwachae in Seoul serves house-made condiments from chili paste to soy bean paste.
 We recommend: The Acorn, which received a Top Ten Best New Restaurants mention in En Route Magazine, the first vegetarian restaurant ever to snag the honor.
 The artfully composed dishes look like they belong in a museum.
 Jordan.
 It's so easy to find vegetarian-friendly restaurants in Jordan where mezze dishes such as tabouleh, hummus, falafel and gourmet Arabic flatbreads abound.
 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
 Chinese, Malay and Indian cuisines are common.
 We recommend: The inexpensive Gopala Vegetarian Restaurant, which features a potpourri of cultural cuisines from Thai to Indian.
 The vegetarian satay and vegetarian fried rice earn raves.
 Gopala Vegetarian Restaurant, No.
 