(CNN Student News) January 13, 2011.
  More than 1,700 flights have been canceled at New York city's 3 major airports, though the city's public schools stayed open.
 Phil Black, CNN, Brisbane, Australia.
 Shoutout.
 CNN STUDENT NEWS: We know you want a Shoutout dedicated to your class on CNN Student News and there is one way to get it, so listen up, y'all! First: Have your teacher take an original photo of your school.
  You click How do I get a Shoutout? And you follow the instructions to get your iReport to us.
  It's like Peachtree on ice: A once-in-a-lifetime sight to ski.
  We'll ski ya tomorrow, on air, online, on iTunes, and probably still on ice.
 MARTIN SAVIDGE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Officials knew Atlanta wasn't prepared for the storm.
 Historically, what's been the attitude of the city when it comes to snow or ice?.
 • Arizona • Australia.
 SAVIDGE: Atlanta has relied on two basic facts southern snowstorms are rare, and the best way to get rid of the snow is to simply let it melt.
  In fact the roads are still so bad I couldn't get to the experts I wanted to interview, so I called them.
 Do we have any idea of what this snow event for the city of Atlanta may cost?.
 SAVIDGE: Cunningham says because a convention might have been snowed out doesn't mean the city lost money.
  What about all those businesses who couldn't work because their employees couldn't get in?.
 CUNNINGHAM [ON PHONE There is certainly some lost income associated with hourly workers not being able to get in and get paid.
 (END VIDEO).
 House Condemns Shooting.
  Yesterday, lawmakers held a bipartisan Congressional prayer service in honor of the 19 shooting victims in Arizona.
  House Speaker John Boehner said, our nation mourns for the victims, it yearns for peace and it thirsts for answers.
  President Obama left Washington, D.C. for Tucson, Arizona yesterday.
 Blog Report.
 AZUZ: We're turning now to our Facebook page, for some of your comments on the Arizona shooting.
 CNN STUDENT NEWS: Is This Legit? Queensland is a state in New Zealand.
 Australia Floodwaters Rising.
 AZUZ: Parts of Queensland, Australia are suffering through what's being called the worst natural disaster in the state's history.
 First Up: Winter Storm Woes.
  Massive flooding has left huge areas of Queensland underwater.
  And the water steadily began creeping beyond its banks.
 AZUZ: Florida is the only state in the union without snow on the ground and that includes Hawaii! In the northeast, that snow is deep.
  They raced the water, and some kept going even when they were clearly falling behind.
  When a weather emergency is called in New York, which gets more than two feet of snow a year, you know it's bad.
 BESWICK: I would probably think up to this ridge here but not the main ridge.
 