Washington The much-maligned, color-coded Homeland Security Advisory System is about to be consigned to the proverbial dustbin of history.
  The old color coded system taught Americans to be scared, not prepared, said ranking member Rep.
 President George W. Bush established the Homeland Security Advisory System by presidential directive on March 11, 2002, just a few months after the 9/11 terrorist attacks in New York and Washington.
 The initial level was yellow, which the system retained until September 11, 2002, when it was raised to orange to cover the first anniversary of the attacks.
 Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano is expected to announce Thursday that the almost 9-year-old threat alert system will go away in April.
 The general threat level is yellow/elevated.
 Almost from the start, the threat level system was the butt of jokes and multiple parodies.
 A Total Headcase Advisory System began with George Soros is arrested and ended with Hillary Clinton is elected president.
  Still another announced that Homeland Security and Crayola had jointly revised the system, changing green to aquamarine, blue to raw umber, yellow to burnt sienna, orange to neon carrot and red to cotton candy.
  And just days after his 2005 resignation, then-Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge told a Washington forum that he sometimes disagreed with the rationale for raising the alert but was overruled by others on the Homeland Security Advisory Council, which made the decisions.
 The source did not provide details of the new system, which Napolitano will unveil at what the department is calling the first annual 'State of America's Homeland Security' address at George Washington University.
 The Bush administration denied Ridge's assertions, however.
 Townsend is now a national security contributor for CNN..
  Though the system served a valuable purpose in the terrible days and months following the terrorist attacks of September 11, it was clearly time for the current color-coded system to be replaced with a more targeted system, King said.
 