March 14 is my favorite day to be a nerd.
 Across the country, math geeks in museums, schools, private groups and elsewhere gather to celebrate the number pi, approximately 3.14. That's why March 14 3-14 is Pi Day.
 Math may be scary, but pi is not as evidenced by the widespread revelry on Pi Day.
  Even the House of Representatives supported the designation of March 14 as National Pi Day in 2009..
 In countries where the day is written before the month, Friday is 14-3, which looks less like pi.
  You could celebrate Pi Day in a casual way by grabbing a slice of pastry, or pizza.
 Where Pi Day began.
  What's more, Albert Einstein was born on this day.
 Pi Day began as a small gathering with mostly museum staff.
 For those who can't attend in person, the Exploratorium has a Second Life Pi Day event that includes irrational exhibits, fireworks, cheerleaders, music, and dancing.
 On Pi Day, is 'pi' under attack?.
 Where Einstein lived.
 Princeton, New Jersey, kicks off Pi Day weekend on Thursday night with a reading by physicist Charles Adler, then heads into a full day of activities on Friday, including a walking tour of Einstein's neighborhood and a pizza pie-making contest.
  Last year about 9,000 people participated, she said.
 Along with her fascination with Albert Einstein, Omiecinski was inspired to launch a town-wide Pi Day after she heard that the Princeton University mathematics department celebrates March 14 with pie-eating and pi-reciting (As a Princeton student, I got second place for most digits in 2005 and 2006 .
 Even more pi.
  Lots of restaurants and bakeries are offering Pi Day specials.
 The Museum of Science in Boston has educational Pi Day events, and the Seattle Children's Museum will celebrate too.
 Outside of the physical classroom, Pi Day will be celebrated online through Google's virtual classroom project.
 How did Pi Day become such a big thing?.
  That'll be worth more than a thousand digits.
 How do you celebrate Pi Day? Tell us in the comments.
  3.1415926535897932 etc.
 On Pi Day, one number 'reeks of mystery'.
 